# CS-330-Computer_Graphics_and_Visualization

### How do I approach designing software? What new design skills has your work on the project helped you to craft? What design process did you follow for your project work? How could tactics from your design approach be applied in future work?

Throughout working on my computer science degree, I have created an approach to help me effectively design software. This project has taught me how to write code that actually produces graphics. My only code writing experieces before now were writing simple programs that involved simple data - and it made me very conscious on how I chose to design software. I believe I follow the same steps I always do for programs, this project helped solidify why those values are so important. I broke down the requirements of the Project into pieces, and formed a plan of how I wanted the code to function as well as the pieces I needed to ensure it ran correctly. I then came up with a plan with small goals along the way, and success on the those goals would mean success on the overall design of the software. These can be applied in future use as I see designing programs all starting a similar way, it is best to plan ahead and set up smaller goals along the way.


### How do I approach developing programs? What new development strategies did you use while working on your 3D scene? How did iteration factor into your development? How has your approach to developing code evolved throughout the milestones, which led you to the project’s completion? 

I approached developing the program similar to how I planned and executed the design phase. I ensured my code was modular, used encapsulation, and abstraction as I wrote the code. I wanted the code to be as repeatable as possible. I ensured to thoroughly comment the code so that a reader would know what each piece of code did. Not so much so that the commenting interfered with reading the code, thtere is a fine line. I used iteration by repeating triangles to create the sides of all objects in the scene. I tried to learn to use iteration to repeat shapes and place them in the scene but that was slightly outside what I was able to accomplish. I was glad to have the milestones, coding 3D images is difficult and all the nuances of moving the camera and learning how to shade a scene was also difficult. So learning how to build my fina scene in all the pieces we learned was extremely helpful. The milestones were key to helping me successfully ending with my completed 3D scene.


### How can computer science help me in reaching my goals? How do computational graphics and visualizations give you new knowledge and skills that can be applied in your future educational pathway?

Computer science can help me in reaching my goals because I evetually want to become a software engineer. All the tools I have been working on will aid me to become a software engineer in the future. This degree path has taught me to think more logically and helped me to be more through in my approach to figuring out how to code different programs and software. Computational graphics and visualizations is a subject I had no prior knowledge in before this course. This is a subject I never thought about trying to teach myself, but I am glad I have the knowledge now. The prior knowledge, even if I am not in a career where I am constantly writing code for 3D graphics, will be useful if I ever am in a siuation with a client. Plus learning the hard reality that is coding 3D graphics further embedded the need for modular and reusable code.
